>> Scott Moss: All right,
let's talk about the RAG pipeline.
So first of all, we need to understand
the different parts of RAG.
RAG involves a couple things.
It involves a vector database,
we'll talk about a vector database,
it involves embeddings in vectors, and
then it involves indexing that,
and then querying that.
So it involves those
four things at minimum.
And then depending on what your process
is, you'll have more than that.
I'll show you a graph right now, it'll
blow your mind, just the type of stuff you
have to do to get something
that's 60% good, it's insane.
So let's talk about the RAG pipeline,
knowing that we have
those different pieces.
So the first thing is,
is you start with your documents.
Your documents are the things that you
want your AI to have access to to answer
questions.
So in my example of these documents
might be books, they might be pages,
they might be chapters.
And that's the first hard part is,
one, I know I have all this data,
what is the best way to put
it in the database, right?
Because if you think about it, first of
all, you don't need to know how a vector
database works right now, but let's
think about the problem that we have.
The problem that we have is,
we can't fit all this data into the LLM.
So if I just take all this data and
put in the vector database as one entity,
that doesn't solve my problem.
Because [LAUGH] when the AI
queries this database to get it,
they're gonna get back
the whole thing anyway.
I might as well just put it in there.
So now you have to think, okay,
I have to break this up so
when the AI finds the appropriate one,
it only gets that piece, right?
So then you have to think of
what's called a chunking strategy.
How do I chunk this data to
a point where it's appropriate so
when my AI finds these pieces of chunks,
I'm confident that it has
the information that it needs.
And then you have to think
about how that works.
Some of your data might be relational.
For us, we might chunk someone's emails.
Emails are highly relational
about the threat that they're on,
whether you sent it or received it.
Did you get BCC or CC?
Who was the sender?
There's so many different angles in
which you have to think about, and
then that's not even considering
the body that's in the email.
And if you think about email body,
it might not just have the email
that you sent, but if it's a reply, it's
got all the other ones underneath it too,
which is doubled,
because those emails have them as well.
So it's, you have to really think about,
how do I separate this to the point
where the AI kinda knows it?
So there really is no right answer, but
what most people do is they pick
a token limit of, all right,
I'm gonna pick a chunk, I'm gonna have
it be at max x amount of tokens, right?
Let's say 100 tokens, so that's,
I don't know, 400 characters or
something like that, think a number.
And then what they'll do
is they will do a overlap.
So if I have a book, and
I'm breaking up every 100 tokens,
what I will do is, for every 100 tokens,
when I go to the next set that
I'm chunking, I'll start back.
So if I've already chunked 100 tokens,
the next one won't start off at the 100th
token, it'll start off at token 80.
So I'll overlap 20 tokens,
and then I'll go from 80,
up to another 100, so that'll be,
whatever that number is.
And then basically,
the chunk after the chunk before it,
there's an overlap of 20 tokens
where they're exactly the same.
That way when I don't miss context,
because if you break up a sentence in
the middle of a word, you might
lose the context of that sentence.
So having that overlap there helps the AI
continue the context of certain words.
So this can get really crazy.
So that's naive rack, that's generic,
very naive implementation V1.
So that's what most people start with.
They do chunking on some token level,
and then they do some type of overlap.
So you'll see a lot of that.
And then that's not to mention text
extraction, I'm talking about things that
are already texts like a book, it's
already a PDF, you already have the text.
Some things aren't text, right,
some things might be in JSON, so
you have to figure out,
how do I format that to text?
Some things might be in XML,
some things might be images,
some things might be video,
some things might be songs.
How do I transform MP3 into
something that I can index, right?
You need a model for that.
So that's usually step zero, but honestly,
I think a lot of that is
solved pretty well already.
There's literally a model to do all
of that, but I think the chunking is
hard because although it's easy to do,
there is no right answer.
And I see a lot of different strategies
every single day about how to do
this best.
And if you ever wanna talk about chunking,
let me know,
I know way too much about that.
The next thing you do is
you have to do embeddings.
So what is an embedding?
Okay, so here's an embedding.
An embedding is a group of vectors,
a vector is a number,
it's an array of vectors,
each number is between zero and one.
It's a couple decimal points.
And they are the numerical representation
of a piece of text, right?
So this piece of text,
when passed into some embedding model, so
right now we have LLMs,
we also have embedding models.
Embedding models are the things
that transform your text into
numbers consistently every single time.
It is the foundation of LLMs.
Without embedding models,
LLMS would not be able to do this
type of prediction in
similarity types of semantics.
So what you have to do is, when you
have the data that you want to ingest,
you then have to convert that data,
those chunks, into vectors,
which is a group of numbers.
And you have to put them in a vector
database cuz the vector database only
takes embedding,
it only takes list of numbers.
You can't put text in a vector database.
Once you have them in the vector database,
you can do math on them, right?
So you could think of,
maybe this represents
a three-dimensional vector database, and
these are pieces of text that are grouped
together by similar semantics or words.
And you can kinda see how far
they are from each other and
their distance between them.
And this is exactly how we calculate the
distance between what a user is saying and
what we want the AI to know
inside of a vector database.
We just put it on a graph,
we do some math, and we figure out,
which are the ones that have
the closest similarities, right?
Although, it's on a 1500 dimension
database, not 3-dimension or
700-dimension database, it really
just depends on your embedding model.
Different embedding models have
different levels of dimensions.
The higher the dimension, the more
detail it knows, but the more it costs,
and the slower it might be,
just like an LLM.
Cool, so once you do that,
then you have to store it,
put it in your vector database, typically
depends on the type of data you have.
You store that information like we're
gonna do today, you just run it once.
We have static data, we have a movie
database that's never updated, so
we're just gonna update it once,
and that's it.
We do that offline, we don't do
that when application's running.
Now if you're indexing data
that is constantly changing,
then it's like a regular database.
When that data comes in, you create it,
you chunk it, you create an embedding,
you save it in your database,
just like you would in a regular database.
So it just depends on your data.
I would say, for most of the examples out
there, usually talk about some static data
or something that doesn't
really change that much.
Take your notion data and turn it into
a vector so you can search on it or
something like that, or
talk to a PDF or something like that.
Those are static,
they almost never change.
So the update frequency is just depending
on how much your data changes, right?
Yeah, it can get pretty expensive [LAUGH].
Then the last part, which is the R of RAG,
retrieval, is, well, not the last part,
the other side of the coin.
What I just talked about was indexing and
ingesting the data.
Now that you have that,
when someone ask a question on your LLM,
now you gotta go retrieve it.
So now here's the other side of it.
We already indexed it,
it's in the database.
The retrieval part is kinda
similar to the indexing part,
we take what the user said,
we also turn that into an embedding.
Why would we turn what the user said
into an embedding, anybody know why?
>> Speaker 2: So we can do math?
>> Scott Moss: So we can do math,
right, yeah, we wanna do number math.
So [LAUGH] well, number math isn't
all math numbers, that's so silly.
We wanna do math, so we have to
convert the user's text into vectors,
numerical representation,
the same way that the rest of our data is.
And then what we can do,
most vector databases have
different search algorithms
on how you wanna search.
There's so many of them most people use,
like cosine similarity.
There's other ones that I'm not smart
enough to even remember or understand, but
for the most part,
that's what a lot of people do.
And it's the type of algorithm
that it runs to create
that list of similar pieces of data,
so you find those.
Some databases have advanced features
like metadata filtering, and
you'll see that we have that as well
in the database that we're gonna use.
Where you can not only
search from a vector, but
you can also filter on metadata.
As far as movies go, this director
equals this, year, between this year and
this year.
So you can narrow it down even further,
so you can get really good with it.
And yeah, so that's the retrieval part.
The augmentation part, the A in RAG,
is taking those results and
adding it back to the original LLM so
it can see it, right?
How do I take these results and
add it back?
That part sounds simple,
but there's so much.
In a production app, you would almost
never come directly from a RAG or
from a vector query with a list
of things and give it to the AI,
you almost never do it for
a lot of reasons.
One, how many tokens are in here?
If there's a lot of tokens in here,
and I just feed it back to AI,
I'm back to where I started, I might break
the LLM cuz I added too many tokens.
So one, how many tokens are in here?
Two, a vector database is really good at
finding things that semantically make
sense, but they actually aren't good
at understanding relevance, right?
So if I had a question that mentioned
something about a date and,
find me movies that were between
this time and this time, and
it wouldn't found me movies.
Let's say I said, find me a movie that's
in between the year 1989 and 2000.
And then it found me two movies,
its title was called 1989, and
the other one's title was called 2000.
Yeah, the vector database is gonna
be like, yeah, here you go, but
that's actually not relevant at all.
So typically, you would have another step,
which is called re-ranking, which would
rank these on how relevant they are to the
original message, and some other thing.
You might even summarize these
because they're still too big,
there's a lot of optimization around that.
And then you would augment your
original AI with the results of that so
we can see it.
So that's the augmentation step.
And then the generation step is, now
that AI can see it, formulate an answer.
You have the information you need,
you have the original user question,
formulate an answer,
that's the generation part.
And that has its own nuances as well,
trying to have a ground,
cuz a lot of apps,
if you go to use Claude or,
anything that, perplexity,
they have sources.
Here are all the sources that I
use to answer your question so
that generation part would have that, yes.
>> Speaker 3: Do we need to
have some kinda description for
each chunk that helps AI
choose the correct chunk?
>> Scott Moss: It's so hard to answer
that question because you don't need to
do any of that,
it might help depending on your use case.
The closest thing I can think of that
reminds me of that is actually how
Claude and
the Anthropic team does their chunking.
It's called contextual retrieval,
and it does exactly that.
It'll take a chunk, and then it'll
run that chunk through an LLM to give
a description of that chunk in
relation to the entire document.
And then that contextualized chunk is
what they put in the vector database.
So the AI not only sees the chunk, but
understands how this chunk
relates to the entire document.
This is actually what I use in production,
this is one of the things
I use in production.
So yeah, you can do it, but
there's other things that you can
do as well that are really helpful.
But no, you don't need to do it.
Because the data itself,
the semantics itself,
those numbers themselves,
are the things that are being compared.
So you have to think to yourself,
there's a process of thinking of,
what would I expect my users to be
searching for versus the data that I have?
And how can I get ahead of that and
add some of that here?
But also the only way to get
around this is just EVALS.
You have to do EVALS on this stuff
to see how good your retrieval is,
your augmentation is,
your generation is, everything.
There's just no way around it.
One of many approaches is that, yes.